---
title: |
  \vspace{2in}
  \begin{tabular}{c}
    Test Document: \\
    Using Pandoc for Document Generation \\
  \end{tabular}
author:
  - Max Ho ([\@mhho3082](https://github.com/mhho3082/))
date: '`\today`{=latex}' # Swap to a static date if needed
subject: "Pandoc"
keywords: ["Pandoc", "Document Generation", "Writing", "Prose"]
lang: en

geometry: margin=1in
mainfont: "Times New Roman"
sansfont: "Times New Roman"
monofont: "JetBrainsMono Nerd Font Mono"
fontsize: 12pt
colorlinks: true
linkcolor: black

toc: true
toc-title: Table of Content

link-citations: true
citecolor: black

include-before:
  - |
    \large
    \begin{obeylines}
      \textbf{NOTE:}
      This is a testing document.
      Please modify it to suit your needs.
    \end{obeylines}
    \normalsize
  - '`\pagenumbering{gobble}`{=latex}' # Disable page numbering
  - '`\newpage{}`{=latex}' # Start ToC in new page
...

<!-- Table of Content is generated here, right after title -->

\newpage

<!-- Re-enable page numbering: -->

\pagenumbering{arabic}

# Quick Start

Install the following Arch Linux packages as necessary:

- [`pandoc-bin`](https://pandoc.org/):
  The main compiler
  - [`meta-group-texlive-most`](https://tug.org/texlive/):
    Provides latex-to-pdf compilation
  - [`pandoc-crossref-bin`](https://github.com/lierdakil/pandoc-crossref):
    Allows referencing figures and more
  - [`mermaid-filter`](https://github.com/raghur/mermaid-filter):
    Allows compiling graphs from Mermaid syntax
  - [`pandoc-plot-bin`](https://github.com/LaurentRDC/pandoc-plot):
    Allows generating graphs using code
    - [`python-matplotlib`](https://matplotlib.org/):
      An external library allowing usage of `matplotlib` in Arch Linux

&nbsp;

Then, modify the `makefile` as appropriate:

```make
input_file  = draft.md
output_name = output
ref_bib     = references.bib
csl_file    = pandoc_tools/ieee.csl
```

&nbsp;

Now, you can write your document in the input file(s)
and run `make` to compile the `.pdf` document.
For ease of use, you can run `make open` (or `make o`)
to open the compiled file(s).

&nbsp;

Most markdown, HTML, and LaTeX syntaxes are allowed -
just don't mix them up, or they may not function properly.
For the special syntaxes for graph drawing and citing,
please refer to their specific filters above.

## Helpful syntaxes

- Use `\newpage` wherever you want to make a page break
- Use `&nbsp;` to create a non-printed paragraph,
  effectively expanding the paragraph spacing
- Use `$$` for LaTeX maths

\newpage

# Plots

```{.matplotlib format=svg caption="A matplotlib test code." #fig:plot}
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.figure()
plt.plot([0,1,2,3,4], [1,2,3,4,5])
plt.title('This is an example figure')
```

So [@fig:plot] is generated by `matplotlib`.

```{.mermaid format=svg}
gantt
    dateFormat  YYYY-MM-DD
    todayMarker off

    Literature review      : 2023-11-05, 3w
    Application skeleton   : 1w
    Core features          : 2w
    User interface         : 1w
    File import and export : 1w
```

Another diagram above is generated by `mermaid`,
which have nice syntaxes for various graphs.
Do note that some diagram types, such as `flowchart`,
may require `png` output instead of the nicer `svg`,
else the text would not load in them.
Also, for some reason,
`pandoc-crossref` do not work with `mermaid-filter`'s diagrams.

\newpage

# Tables

Below ([@tbl:mdtable]) is a basic Markdown table,
which would be rendered based on the template selected for Pandoc:

| Type | A   | B   | C   |
| ---: | --- | --- | --- |
|    A | 1   | 2   | 3   |
|    B | 1   | 2   | 3   |

: Markdown table example {#tbl:mdtable}

Here is one using the `\tabular` LaTeX command,
which is much more configurable:

_(But note that `crossref`'s table reference
does not work, but equation reference does instead;
and also `crossref`'s equation reference syntax
messes up `prettier` for some reason)_

$$
\begin{tabular}{r|c|c|c}
  \textbf{Type} & \textbf{A} & \textbf{B} & \textbf{C} \\
  \hline
  A & 1 & 2 & 3 \\
  B & 1 & 2 & 3 \\
\end{tabular}
$$

You can refer to
[latex-tutorial.com/tutorials/tables](https://latex-tutorial.com/tutorials/tables/)
for the syntax for LaTeX tables.

\newpage

# References

<!-- Bibliography is generated here, at the end of document -->
